this is a town of beta in the occupied
West
Bank it hit headlines 3 years ago for
being a model of nonviolent resistance
against Israeli settler
colonization local people used tactics
to confuse settlers who had tried to
pitch up on the hill their persistence
drove them
out the night confusion activities
consisted of men women children and the
elderly a large group of men would light
fires and flares and hike to the
settlement another unit would use flood
lights and lasers and another would make
loud
noises but the settlement has since been
transformed into an Israeli military
base waa abdurahman has spent nearly two
decades leading an NGO supporting
Palestinian journalists covering
uprisings negotiations armed and
nonviolent resistance she says fatigue
is growing in the occupied West Bank the
division uh in the West Bank didn't
happen again overnight or in October or
last year it has been happening it was
orchestrated it's a policy of dividing
the land and thus dividing the people
it's like the Swiss cheese to make it
worse the Israelis are surrounding and
and shutting down each Enclave by itself
further north Israel considers Janine
the wasp nest of Fighters there a model
of armed resistance revived in 2021 soon
spread to Naas tubas and
tolam but one researcher says the
fighters are mostly defending their
refugee
camps the occupation separated cities
through divisions between regions by
destroying the economy and dividing
societal structures including camps
cities and Villages while resistance
violent and nonviolent is mostly
contained in camps towns and villages
rights groups say bedwin are mostly
defenseless and are being pushed from
their land we attempt to reach one
displaced Community but a roadblock
prevents us from reaching them a few
kilometers away we find another
Community there are eight families
living in this bedwin Camp they don't
want to speak on camera but they did
tell us they were forced from their land
just a few kilometers away from settler
violence they say they are most
vulnerable to displacement and they have
very few options to defend
themselves those with the options say
they'll continue to defend their land
but few are holding on to the hope of a
collective struggle while they remain
physically
divided Laura Khan Al jazer the occupied
West
[Music]
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer